README.md, before:

# js-exercise-tester

This is a set of introductory exercises for JavaScript, with test cases. The exercises emphasize modern JavaScript iteration methods, such as map and filter, over the older while and for forms.

This is neither a tutorial, nor an attempt at an exhaustive set of exercises. The goal is to be simple but not completely inane. 

## Getting Started

Everything you need is in one HTML file. In addition, you have to create a file to hold your JavaScript code.

### Prerequisites

  * Any modern web browser with a developer console, such as Chrome or Firefox
  * A good text editor, such as Visual Studio Code, BBedit, or Sublime

### Installing

  * Download [tests.html](tests.html) into a folder.
  * Create an empty text file called **solutions.js** in the same folder. 
  * Open **tests.html** in your browser to see the QUnit report on tests passed and failed.

Initially all tests will fail because you have not defined any functions.

### Using

Your goal is to write function definitions in the file **solutions.js** to pass all the tests.

For example, the first test that fails is **sumOfSquares**.

Clicking on _Show exercise_ next to **sumOfSquares** to see a description of what you need to do. For this example, you need to define a function **sumOfSquares** to take two numbers, square them, and return the sum. The description lists the tests cases your code needs to pass, e.g., <tt>sumOfSquares(3, 4)</tt> should return 5.

Put the following code into your file **solutions.js**. This code is deliberately wrong, so that you can see what partial success looks like.

```
function sumOfSquares(x, y) {
  return 25;
}
```

Save **solutions.js** and reload **test.html**. The report should show that the first two tests pass, but the third test fails. 

Now change your solution to the correct code:

```
function sumOfSquares(x, y) {
  return x * x + y * y;
}
```

Save **solutions.js** and reload **test.html**. The report should show that all tests for **sumOfSquares** pass. To see what those tests were, click on the **sumOfSquares** label in the report.

For more on using the QUnit test interface, see [this tutorial](https://code.tutsplus.com/tutorials/how-to-test-your-javascript-code-with-qunit--net-9077).

## The Exercises

The exercises are divided into modules that focus on different basic topics in JavaScript. This very preliminary release has the following modules: 

* **basics** -- working functions, arithmetic, and conditionals
* **strings** -- building and manipulating strings
* **arrays** -- working with arrays
* **objects** -- working with JavaScript objects
* **map** -- processing lists with **map**
* **filter** -- processing lists with **filter**
* **reduce** -- processing lists with **reduce**

## Built With

* [QUnit](https://qunitjs.com/) - The in-browser testing framework used

## Authors

* **Chris Riesbeck** - *Initial work* - [home page](http://www.cs.northwestern.edu/~riesbeck/)


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* Hat tip to QUnit for in-browser testing and lots of hooks

Commit message:

add link to demo page

README.md, after:

# js-exercise-tester

This is a set of introductory exercises for JavaScript, with test cases. The exercises emphasize modern JavaScript iteration methods, such as map and filter, over the older while and for forms.

This is neither a tutorial, nor an attempt at an exhaustive set of exercises. The goal is to be simple but not completely inane. 

The demo [tests.html](https://criesbeck.github.io/js-exercise-tester/tests.html)
shows the interface a few exercises defined,  one solution, and one partial
solution.

## Getting Started

Everything you need is in one HTML file. In addition, you have to create a file to hold your JavaScript code.

### Prerequisites

  * Any modern web browser with a developer console, such as Chrome or Firefox
  * A good text editor, such as Visual Studio Code, BBedit, or Sublime

### Installing

  * Download [tests.html](tests.html) into a folder.
  * Create an empty text file called **solutions.js** in the same folder. 
  * Open **tests.html** in your browser to see the QUnit report on tests passed and failed.

Initially all tests will fail because you have not defined any functions.

### Using

Your goal is to write function definitions in the file **solutions.js** to pass all the tests.

For example, the first test that fails is **sumOfSquares**.

Clicking on _Show exercise_ next to **sumOfSquares** to see a description of what you need to do. For this example, you need to define a function **sumOfSquares** to take two numbers, square them, and return the sum. The description lists the tests cases your code needs to pass, e.g., <tt>sumOfSquares(3, 4)</tt> should return 5.

Put the following code into your file **solutions.js**. This code is deliberately wrong, so that you can see what partial success looks like.

```
function sumOfSquares(x, y) {
  return 25;
}
```

Save **solutions.js** and reload **test.html**. The report should show that the first two tests pass, but the third test fails. 

Now change your solution to the correct code:

```
function sumOfSquares(x, y) {
  return x * x + y * y;
}
```

Save **solutions.js** and reload **test.html**. The report should show that all tests for **sumOfSquares** pass. To see what those tests were, click on the **sumOfSquares** label in the report.

For more on using the QUnit test interface, see [this tutorial](https://code.tutsplus.com/tutorials/how-to-test-your-javascript-code-with-qunit--net-9077).

## The Exercises

The exercises are divided into modules that focus on different basic topics in JavaScript. This very preliminary release has the following modules: 

* **basics** -- working functions, arithmetic, and conditionals
* **strings** -- building and manipulating strings
* **arrays** -- working with arrays
* **objects** -- working with JavaScript objects
* **map** -- processing lists with **map**
* **filter** -- processing lists with **filter**
* **reduce** -- processing lists with **reduce**

## Built With

* [QUnit](https://qunitjs.com/) - The in-browser testing framework used

## Authors

* **Chris Riesbeck** - *Initial work* - [home page](http://www.cs.northwestern.edu/~riesbeck/)


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* Hat tip to QUnit for in-browser testing and lots of hooks
